You heard it many times, you know 'Bhuumzi'. 'Bhuumzi' is 'joint masters' and the 'joint master' or
in a way 'Bhuumzi' is 'ritual chariot' or ritual master. Master 'Bhuumzi'. That is 'Bhuumzi'.
And the third master of this meditation is 'Medala Master'. And that is a video called 'Chupu'. 'Ch
upu' or 'offering chariot' and will take care of the shrine.
Shrine in Medala, all that aspects. Because Vajrayana presided over the ceremony in a way to look
at larger Medala aspects and perspectives.
And then the 'joint master' or the 'ritual master' will take care of every giant and ceremony, the
mudra, all that we are doing. That is leading by the 'Bhuumzi'.
'Bhuumzi' is leading the giant as well as also, for example, the mudras. And as well as also 'Bhuum
zi' is leading all the ritual implements.
So that means ritual implement, what you will do in the group, always they will follow the 'Bhuumzi
'. 'Bhuumzi' will in a way, so it is in one way in a regular, I think in a Western world, 'Bhuumzi'
is leading the conductors.
Conductors. That everybody follows within 'Bhuumzi'. Even that, for example, 'Vajyacharya'. 'Vajy
acharya' will follow 'Bhuumzi'.
Of course, there is specific duty for the 'Vajyacharya', for the 'Vajyacharyas', 'Majyacharyas'.
But generally speaking, the ceremony, the generally ceremony, 'Vajyacharyas' also will follow
within 'Bhuumzi'.
That 'Bhuumzi' is the conductors. With that conductors, within that conductors, then 'Chogong' will
perform the all-take care of the shrines, shrine duties, the mandala duties, from the offering to
the element, to the need, and all of looking or presiding, all examining the mandala, how that is.
From the tolma, to the offering, to the essence, and every aspect.
But what will be prescribed by, by that chopples?
Then there is a big monastery that has another one, and the portwasser.
That is known as, I think, in Tibet, we call, I mean, not we call, in Tibet, it is known as 'Chutam
'.
Chutam, and C-H-O, maybe just pronounce it here, C-R-I-M, Chutam.
Chutam is the investment world that I think they call 'monitors'.
'Monitors' is not just a monitor, but monitor also is master of everything, in a way, knows
everything.
So it is like looking how everything is happening, kind of over presiding.
So all that medala, nishel, every aspect, looking every kind of, in a way, guidelines, as well as
all the duties, maintaining everything, how that is happening.
Almost larger views of the mostly in the conduct and the surface levels, surface level, how things
happen.
And that is, a little bit, 'Chutam'.
'Chutam' is a dharma, 10 means guidelines or the moralities, and who are upkeeping the moralities
of the dharma.
And that is 'Chutam', 'Chutam'.
So these four are generally in the big monasteries, but even in the small monasteries, maybe they
don't need the monitors and all that.
It is small, but this 'Dodjihokum' and 'Wumze' and 'Chokum' are always.
And then, of course, in hermitage, in just three purposes, that is not enough purpose to do.
So then, that even the hermitage, one person in themselves becomes the 'Iborim' and everything.
Becomes very 'Chala' and 'Chokum' and 'Wumze' and the 'Moneta' or the 'Chutam', all that.
But it is kind of the 'Gikki' that vision, that goal, that frame, kind of just, even it is just one
person, two person, three person, kind of having that.
So because ceremony, when we do this ceremony, has many meanings that we already discussed that.
First of all, ceremony is practice, our practice.
Practice means we are purifying our habitivity, negativities and revealing our innate beauty.
That is the most principle purpose.
With that contrast, then, maintaining the beautiful 'Sabaya' or the beautiful 'Vedya' states, three
Vedas.
And everything kind of keeping in that contrast as we talk, beauty, understanding, relaxation, bodh
icitta, yoga, devotion, graceful, gratitude and all the application.
I mean, every kind of goodness call it, most of the time it is hiding in the midst of the 'Hapaki'
bed and now we glorify that.
We bring up that in perfect state, perfect state.
That is the ceremony. It is not just doing something, kind of like ritual or something like that.
But really we bring every goodness that hiding behind the midst of our many layers of the duality
through the power and the techniques of the Vedayana.
Now we really bring up that from the bottom to the top, completely in that state.
Therefore, joy, appreciation and grateful, graceful.
And those, of course, everybody knows, is called very basic.
But basic is the central columns.
And with that, then concentration, realization.
If you expand in that, world is normal world what we see now, world.
It is truly one of the beautiful world, beautiful states where we can fully enlighten.
And that's why all those great masters, great practitioners did stand in the same soil where we are
standing now.
And breathe the same air while we are breathing.
And drink the same water. Maybe now they are more highly developed or polluted or whatever.
Same things. Same thing they did. Looks the same thing for poor legs or poor legs and head, no same
thing.
But they are beautified. Pied from such these.
Those are the, like examples, raw models of us.
Us. Then that's what this ceremony, the ritual practice is.
And we don't pick up, we don't discover these things.
Then we kind of almost monetize, disappoint it.
And kind of also blame.
That's not enough. This, that, this and that.
But that's ego-clinking. This is duality.
This is propagation.
Therefore, every single world in the Buddha, every really know, every single world is so special.
It hit the target of the natural and dispel the duality and revere our goal what we are looking for
.
If we value, if we appreciate, if we respect for duality, this habit pattern is so funny.
It's so, in one way, it's so stubborn. Very stubborn.
Strumming, and also always so dissatisfaction, satisfaction.
And that is weak wellness of ourselves.
And therefore, we restrain the joy and devotion and purity status.
Then we, we confine goal. We can really find true beauty.
What we are looking for, what we are.
And therefore, these basic things, we shouldn't ignore.
The joy, appreciation, respect, grateful, graceful, I think.
Gracious, gracious, gracious, gracious, gratitude.
Those are all we need.
And we have all that. We have that. We are not really lacking anything.
We have every abundance, every beautiful, everything.
And not just every abundance we have.
But we can share, we can glorify with that beauty.
We live with this beauty, with that beauty.
Beauty, continually.
Guide throughout all the journey, and the days, and the months, and the years, and continue.
So therefore, this is, ritual ceremony is very, very special.
And without those understanding, again, I think, we have some chokum.
This chokum will bring, now again, we will come back to the, to the Ghana chakra phase.
As I said, the chokum will hold.